README.md, before:

# Incitaciones 🤖

A collection of reusable prompts and best practices for CLI LLM tools.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Browse content
ls content/

# Find prompts about a topic
just find refactoring

# Create new prompt
just new prompt "Your Task Name"

# Interactive search with fzf
just search
```

## Structure

Everything lives in `content/` with descriptive filenames:

- `prompt-*.md` - Reusable prompts
- `research-*.md` - Experiments and findings
- `example-*.md` - Real-world examples
- `template-*.md` - Templates for new content

See [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for detailed structure and [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## Commands

```bash
just --list              # Show all commands
just new [type] [name]   # Create new content
just find [term]         # Search content
just search              # Interactive fzf search
just validate            # Check metadata
just stats               # Show statistics
```

---

## Meta Prompt for LLMs

> **Use this prompt when asking other LLMs to help you organize prompts in your projects**

```
I want to organize prompts and AI instructions for my project. Please help me set up a system based on these principles:

STRUCTURE:
- Single flat directory (e.g., "prompts/" or ".ai/")
- Slugified filenames with type prefixes:
  - prompt-task-{name}.md for specific tasks
  - prompt-system-{name}.md for agent configurations
  - prompt-workflow-{name}.md for multi-step processes
  - instructions-{context}.md for project-specific instructions

METADATA:
Every file should have YAML frontmatter:
---
title: Human Readable Title
type: prompt|instruction|workflow
tags: [relevant, searchable, tags]
tools: [claude-code, cursor, aider]
status: draft|tested|verified
created: YYYY-MM-DD
updated: YYYY-MM-DD
version: 1.0.0
related: [other-file.md]
source: where-this-came-from
---

CONTENT STRUCTURE:
1. ## When to Use - Context for applying this prompt
2. ## The Prompt - The actual prompt text in a code block
3. ## Example - At least one concrete usage example
4. ## Expected Results - What success looks like
5. ## Variations - Alternative approaches
6. ## References - Links to sources or research
7. ## Notes - Caveats or additional context

WORKFLOW:
1. Create content from templates
2. Test with real AI tools
3. Update status: draft → tested → verified
4. Link related files in frontmatter
5. Track changes in CHANGELOG.md

AUTOMATION:
Create a justfile or Makefile with commands:
- new: Create from template
- find: Search by tag or keyword
- search: Interactive fzf browser
- validate: Check metadata completeness
- stats: Show repository statistics

Please analyze my project at [path] and:
1. Propose which existing prompts/instructions to capture
2. Suggest an appropriate directory name
3. Create initial template files
4. Set up basic automation commands
5. Draft 2-3 initial prompt files based on current usage

Focus on simplicity and discoverability over complex organization.
```

## Examples

**Creating a new task prompt:**
```bash
just new prompt "Incremental Refactoring"
# Edit content/prompt-task-incremental-refactoring.md
# Add frontmatter, prompt text, examples
# Test it with Claude Code
# Mark as tested and commit
```

**Finding related content:**
```bash
just find refactoring
# Shows all files tagged with 'refactoring'

just search
# Opens fzf to interactively browse and preview content
```

**Validating content:**
```bash
just validate
# Checks all files have required metadata
# Verifies related files exist
# Reports any issues
```

## What Goes Here?

✅ **Good candidates:**
- Prompts you use repeatedly
- Task patterns that work well
- Tool-specific configurations
- Research on what works
- Real examples of successful interactions

❌ **Don't include:**
- Project-specific code
- Sensitive information
- One-off experiments without documentation
- Incomplete drafts without context

## Philosophy

**Flat structure** - One directory, easy to find everything
**Rich metadata** - Searchable, relatable, trackable
**Tested content** - Everything should have real usage examples
**Source attribution** - Credit where ideas come from
**Version control** - Track evolution of prompts over time

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for:
- File naming conventions
- Metadata requirements
- Quality standards
- Submission process

## Tools

This repository is designed to work with:
- **Claude Code** - Anthropic's CLI
- **Aider** - AI pair programming
- **Cursor** - AI-first editor
- **Gemini CLI** - Google's CLI
- Any other LLM CLI tool

The prompts are tool-agnostic where possible, with tool-specific variations noted.

## License

[To be determined]

## Related Projects

- [Awesome Prompts](https://github.com/f/awesome-chatgpt-prompts)
- [Anthropic Prompt Library](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude/prompt-library)
- [OpenAI Prompt Engineering Guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/prompt-engineering)

Commit message:

docs(README): Add explicit command installation instructions
Adds a new "How to Install Commands" section to the `README.md`. This section provides a clear, copy-pasteable prompt for users to give to an AI agent, instructing it to read the `meta-prompt-install-commands.md` (via its GitHub URL) and initiate the local installation of repository prompts. This improves user experience by explicitly guiding them on how to leverage the new centralized command installation feature.

README.md, after:

# Incitaciones 🤖

A collection of reusable prompts and best practices for CLI LLM tools.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Browse content
ls content/

# Find prompts about a topic
just find refactoring

# Create new prompt
just new prompt "Your Task Name"

# Interactive search with fzf
just search
```

### How to Install Commands

To install the prompts as commands in your local repository, copy the following prompt and paste it into your AI-powered CLI:

> **User Prompt to an AI Agent**
>
> ```
> Please install the `incitaciones` prompt commands locally in this repository.
>
> Follow the instructions detailed in https://github.com/charly-vibes/incitaciones/blob/main/content/meta-prompt-install-commands.md to perform the installation. Ensure that you set up the canonical directory and create symbolic links for all relevant tools as specified.
>
> Start by asking me which tools I use and which prompts I want to install.
> ```

This will instruct the agent to read the meta-prompt and begin the installation process for this project.

## Structure

Everything lives in `content/` with descriptive filenames:

- `prompt-*.md` - Reusable prompts
- `research-*.md` - Experiments and findings
- `example-*.md` - Real-world examples
- `template-*.md` - Templates for new content

See [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for detailed structure and [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## Commands

```bash
just --list              # Show all commands
just new [type] [name]   # Create new content
just find [term]         # Search content
just search              # Interactive fzf search
just validate            # Check metadata
just stats               # Show statistics
```

---

## Meta Prompt for LLMs

> **Use this prompt when asking other LLMs to help you organize prompts in your projects**

```
I want to organize prompts and AI instructions for my project. Please help me set up a system based on these principles:

STRUCTURE:
- Single flat directory (e.g., "prompts/" or ".ai/")
- Slugified filenames with type prefixes:
  - prompt-task-{name}.md for specific tasks
  - prompt-system-{name}.md for agent configurations
  - prompt-workflow-{name}.md for multi-step processes
  - instructions-{context}.md for project-specific instructions

METADATA:
Every file should have YAML frontmatter:
---
title: Human Readable Title
type: prompt|instruction|workflow
tags: [relevant, searchable, tags]
tools: [claude-code, cursor, aider]
status: draft|tested|verified
created: YYYY-MM-DD
updated: YYYY-MM-DD
version: 1.0.0
related: [other-file.md]
source: where-this-came-from
---

CONTENT STRUCTURE:
1. ## When to Use - Context for applying this prompt
2. ## The Prompt - The actual prompt text in a code block
3. ## Example - At least one concrete usage example
4. ## Expected Results - What success looks like
5. ## Variations - Alternative approaches
6. ## References - Links to sources or research
7. ## Notes - Caveats or additional context

WORKFLOW:
1. Create content from templates
2. Test with real AI tools
3. Update status: draft → tested → verified
4. Link related files in frontmatter
5. Track changes in CHANGELOG.md

AUTOMATION:
Create a justfile or Makefile with commands:
- new: Create from template
- find: Search by tag or keyword
- search: Interactive fzf browser
- validate: Check metadata completeness
- stats: Show repository statistics

Please analyze my project at [path] and:
1. Propose which existing prompts/instructions to capture
2. Suggest an appropriate directory name
3. Create initial template files
4. Set up basic automation commands
5. Draft 2-3 initial prompt files based on current usage

Focus on simplicity and discoverability over complex organization.
```

## Examples

**Creating a new task prompt:**
```bash
just new prompt "Incremental Refactoring"
# Edit content/prompt-task-incremental-refactoring.md
# Add frontmatter, prompt text, examples
# Test it with Claude Code
# Mark as tested and commit
```

**Finding related content:**
```bash
just find refactoring
# Shows all files tagged with 'refactoring'

just search
# Opens fzf to interactively browse and preview content
```

**Validating content:**
```bash
just validate
# Checks all files have required metadata
# Verifies related files exist
# Reports any issues
```

## What Goes Here?

✅ **Good candidates:**
- Prompts you use repeatedly
- Task patterns that work well
- Tool-specific configurations
- Research on what works
- Real examples of successful interactions

❌ **Don't include:**
- Project-specific code
- Sensitive information
- One-off experiments without documentation
- Incomplete drafts without context

## Philosophy

**Flat structure** - One directory, easy to find everything
**Rich metadata** - Searchable, relatable, trackable
**Tested content** - Everything should have real usage examples
**Source attribution** - Credit where ideas come from
**Version control** - Track evolution of prompts over time

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for:
- File naming conventions
- Metadata requirements
- Quality standards
- Submission process

## Tools

This repository is designed to work with:
- **Claude Code** - Anthropic's CLI
- **Aider** - AI pair programming
- **Cursor** - AI-first editor
- **Gemini CLI** - Google's CLI
- Any other LLM CLI tool

The prompts are tool-agnostic where possible, with tool-specific variations noted.

## License

[To be determined]

## Related Projects

- [Awesome Prompts](https://github.com/f/awesome-chatgpt-prompts)
- [Anthropic Prompt Library](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude/prompt-library)
- [OpenAI Prompt Engineering Guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/prompt-engineering)
